**Functions for PROCOVA-LR Simulation Studies on Power**

Six different settings for the simulation studies are considered. The settings are 'Base', 'Large Variance', 'Higher Prevalence', 'Random Error', 'Shifted', and 'Omitted Covariate'. Each is implemented in R via a corresponding .R file.

In the first set of simulation settings (‘Base’, ‘Large Variance’, and ‘Higher Prevalence’), the covariate-adjusted model is correctly specified. The data generating model contains a covariate, the covariate-adjusted analysis model is a logistic regression model specified exactly as the data generating model, and the unadjusted model omits the covariate from the analysis. The settings are summarized in Section 4.2 of Li and Sabbaghi (2023).

The second set of simulation settings (‘Random Error’, ‘Shifted’, and ‘Omitted Covariate’) considers the more realistic case in which the data generating model and both types of analyses model (i.e., the unadjusted and adjusted model) are discrepant, and the former model is unknown. The simulation settings are summarized in Section 4.3 of Li and Sabbaghi (2023). They are labeled as 4, 5, and 6 in continuation of the previous set of three settings.

For each situation, 100,000 data sets were generated. Analyses of the simulated data under both the unadjusted and the adjusted logistic regression models were performed via the glm function in R. Percentage of rejected null hypotheses (which indicates the type I error rate or the power, depending on the data generating model), ratio of the coefficient estimated in the adjusted model to the unadjusted model (the bias factor), ratio of variance of estimated coefficient in the adjusted model to the unadjusted model (the ARE), mean and variance of the underlying probabilities among the simulated subjects if all were assigned to the control arm, the expected efficiency factor, and the actual efficiency factor (ratio of z-scores in the adjusted model to the unadjusted model) are reported. In the settings where the true covariate is not observed while the available covariate contains random errors, the correlation between the available and true covariates is used to adjust the expected efficiency factor.
